THE TEN FACTIONS

Each Faction has 1. A diplomatic ring number 2. A race 3. A home terrain type

0 Humans on Plains tiles
1 Elves in Woods tiles
2 Dwarves in Mountains tiles
3 Giants in Hills tiles
4 Lizardfolk in Jungle tiles
5 Kuotoa in Swamps tiles
6 Drow in Subterranean tiles
7 Pirates on the Coastal tiles
8 Barbarians in Barrens tiles
9 Nomads in Desert tiles

THE DIPLOMATIC RING
The Factions are arranged in a ring from 0 to 9. The diplomatic distance between any two Factions x and y is defined as the shortest path along the ring, calculated as: distance(x, y) = min(|x - y|, 10 - |x - y|). A distance of 0 is called Fully Aligned, a distance of 1 is called Strongly Aligned, while a distance of 2-3 represents Loosely Aligned, and a distance of 4-5 is called Opposed. Thus each Faction on the ring is Fully Aligned with itself, Strongly Aligned with 2 adjacent Factions, Loosely Aligned with 4 Factions, and Opposed to 3 distant Factions.



THE MAP

The board is composed of a hex map of 37 hexes (1 center hex + 3 surrounding rings). Each of the 10 factions start with control of 3 adjacent hexes in the outer 2 rings, one hex of which is that faction’s Stronghold.

GAME SETUP

Each player in the game secretly gets assigned a different random Faction 0-9.

Each Faction gets 3 contiguous hexes of their environ type in the outer 2 hex rings of the board, at least one of which must be an outer ring hex.

Each Faction gets a Stronghold on the outside ring (randomly determined if they have 2 outside ring hexes).

Place one undiscovered Artifact in each of the center 7 hexes.

Each faction starts with Control of their three initial hexes.

Factions will have two neighbors each on the map. Factions are placed randomly around the outside of the map, their 3 hexes together, but Factions will never start next to any Opposed Faction.


SUMMARY

Players seek to push a randomly assigned Faction (and its close allies) to power. The goal is to conquer 2 of their 3 Opposed Factions by destroying their Strongholds.
Each turn, a player will control a random non-Opposed Faction to take an action that directly or indirectly serves their secret goals.

BACKGROUND INFO

There are three types of units on the map: Champions, Artifacts, Strongholds, and Armies.

Champions embody one Faction and are the tools of their Factions.
Champions have strength 3.
A Champion without an Artifact that moves into a hex with an unclaimed Artifact reveals the Artifact and the champion claims that artifact.

Armies have power level 1.
Armies are mustered belonging to one Faction at the cost of 1 gold and can only be raised in a hex under Control of that Faction.
Armies serve to lend 1 strength to any allied group in a battle in the same hex.
Conflicted armies (sharing loose alignment with multiple combatants) do not lend their strength unless bribed by the moving Faction.

Artifacts are only wielded by Champions impart a random power of 1-3 in each combat.
One artifact starts in each of the center 7 map hexes and is only revealed once any Champion with no artifact moves into the hex.
Once claimed, artifacts are never separated from their Champion unless taken as battle losses, in which case the Champion may claim a different Artifact.

Strongholds are the center of a Faction’s power and do not move. Once destroyed that Faction and all its Fully Aligned units are removed from the game.


Term Definitions

Fully Aligned - a unit is Fully Aligned with another unit if it is of the exact same Faction.
Strongly Aligned - A Faction is strongly aligned with another Faction if they are adjacent on the Diplomatic Ring (1 step away on the ring).
Loosely Aligned - A Faction is loosely aligned with another Faction if it is 2 or 3 steps away on the Diplomatic Ring via the closest path.
Opposed - A Faction is Opposed with another Faction if it is 4 or 5 steps away on the Diplomatic Ring via the closest path.
Conflicted - a unit that is loosely aligned with two parties in a combat is conflicted, it does not participate in the fight unless the current moving faction pays 1 gold per army to bring in.
Stronghold - One hex of each faction that is their center of power. Control of a hex is always given to the Faction owning the Stronghold. Conquering a Stronghold eliminates one Faction and its Fully Aligned units from the game.
Control - A Faction may control one or more hexes. Control of a hex is sticky. Control is lost if both: 1. No Faction unit is in the hex at the end of a Faction’s turn and 2. an Unaligned or Loosely Aligned unit (army or champion) is in the hex at the end of a Faction’s move.
Control is gained if a Faction unit occupies a hex and no Unaligned or Loosely Aligned units are present in that hex.
Unit - An Army, Champion, or Stronghold.


GAMEPLAY

Each turn, a player will be assigned to control a random Faction for its turn as if it were their own. Then if no victory condition has been met, play proceeds to the next player.


FACTION TURN

A Faction turn has 5 phases.

Phase 1 - Income
The Faction receives 1 gold for each 3 hexes they control rounded down, but at minimum always gets at least 1 gold.
The player MAY spend 1 gold per army to muster any number of armies in any controlled hexes.
If the Faction has no Champion on the board, a Champion may be mustered in that faction’s Stronghold for 1 gold.

Phase 2 - Move
Each army and champion on the board MAY move one hex. A champion that has no Artifact moving onto a hex with an undiscovered Artifact reveals that Artifact and owns it. A champion may only own 1 artifact. If a champion already has an Artifact, they can reveal no artifacts.

Phase 3 - Combat
Once per hex, any Faction units may combat any Opposed Faction present in the same hex.

The moving player declares the Opposed Faction they wish to attack. This becomes the target Faction.

Then, the forces in the hex are divided into Allied, Enemy, and Conflicted forces as follows.

Any Fully Aligned units in the hex of moving Faction join the Allied group.
Any Strongly Aligned units in the hex of moving Faction join the Allied group.
Any units in the hex Fully Aligned with the target Faction join the Enemy group.
Any units in the hex of Strongly Aligned Factions to the target Faction join the Enemy group.

Those units left over are Conflicted and will not join the battle. However, the moving Faction player may now spend 1 gold to move a Conflicted army into the Allied group. Conflicted Champions may not be moved into the Allied group.

Phase 4 - Control
Faction gains or loses control of hexes.

Control of a hex is sticky, so a Faction retains control of any hex it controlled before unless lost by these rules.

Control is lost if both: 1. No Faction unit is in the hex at the end of a Faction’s turn and 2. at least one Unaligned or Loosely Aligned unit (army or champion) is in the hex at the end of a Faction’s move.

Control is gained if a Faction unit occupies a hex and no Unaligned or Loosely Aligned units are present in that hex.

Phase 5. Victory Condition Check
If any Stronghold fell this turn, then check to see if ANY Factions(s) have won.


COMBAT RULES

Armies have 1 strength. Champions have 3 strength. Artifacts lend random 1-3 strength to their Champion each battle. Hex control lends 1 strength as long as Faction units are present. Hex control of Strongly Aligned Factions does not help a Faction.

In combat, each side rolls 1d6 and adds their total allied strength.

The higher total is the winner.

The winner destroys (their raw die roll) number of enemy strength points.
The loser destroys half the enemy armies the winner destroyed, rounded down.

Each side chooses their losses and has to pay at least their losses or more. Artifacts can be lost to pay 2 (regardless of what strength it lended for that battle). Champions can pay strength for losses, for example if a Champion has strength 3 and that side takes 2 losses, the Champion can absorb the 2 losses leaving it at strength 1.

In a tie, each side loses strength equal to the highest raw die roll.

If the Allied or Enemy group has a Stronghold in their group, the Stronghold counts as 3 armies for calculating strength points. The Stronghold may be chosen as losses only as a last resort (no other combination can pay the total losses).


VICTORY CONDITIONS

A player wins for their secret Faction by destroying the Strongholds of 2 of their 3 Opposed Factions. Two players may both win at the same time.

A player loses immediately if their secret Faction loses its Stronghold.

